hi everyone thank you for joining this
Q&A my name is Charlotte and I'm I'm a
fourth year math student at Oxford so
welcome to this inside unique Q&A about
studying math at Oxford and Cambridge so
just to talk to you a bit about inside
uni inside unis and nonprofits
student-led project to make the Oxford
and Cambridge applications more
accessible we crowdsource application
advice from current students which you
can find for free on our website which
is inside you need at all which will be
posted on the on the YouTube chat so
feel free to take a look but yes thank
you very much for joining today the idea
behind this Korean a that it can be
quite confusing when you apply so we're
trying to demystify the process and and
it's part of insights you need live
video series where you can ask Oxford
students about different aspects of uni
life so feel free to check our other
videos too we have prepared some
questions but we'll also be taking live
questions about anything kind of related
to Oxford Cambridge Mass so feel free to
ask whatever you want so you want to ask
you can just do that on the YouTube chat
and feel free to say hello in the chat
if you're watching too so I'll just
start by by introducing the panelists
that we have today and so first we have
some with us today
so Tom Tom has a really really cool
website that will just post on the chat
so feel free to take a look but I'll
just take a bit of time to talk about
about term and the stuff he does so tom
is a mathematician at oxford he's
actually a tutor so he teaches under
graduates at a few different colleges
like say 10 min hold st. us college st.
John's College and he also runs an
award-winning website that I just
mentioned which is Tom rocks mass comm
so feel free to to take a look and he
also has social media profiles on
twitter facebook instagram youtube which
is just called tom rocks mass and some
regularly appears on the BBC and and
stuff like Explorer which is Oxford
University digital outreach portal are
also numberphile which is a mass
education channel on YouTube and I guess
we'll take a bit of time to talk about
exactly what he does in there in a few
in a few minutes and we also have with
us today Aaron and pass who are the
presidents of Oxford and Cambridge Mass
societies so yes they just current
students at Oxbridge it's really good to
have a point of view too so just feel
free to ask any questions you might have
and I just let the panelists introducing
himself yeah just now so Tom I don't
know if you wanna if you want to kick
off maybe well you kind of said it all
Charlotte but thank you um be the only
thing maybe that I would add is I
actually studied at Oxford myself as an
undergraduate student so whilst it was
maybe ten years ago when I was going
through the application process I have
been through the that process myself
doing the the admissions tests the
interview and they're now actually
setting the admissions tests and doing
the interviews as a tutor so I can offer
opinions from both sides of the the
playing field and I did also do my PhD
at Cambridge
so again whilst that was graduate study
which is a little different the
application procedure etc is a little
different I still have couldn't
hopefully offer some insights into just
general life in Cambridge and master at
Cambridge as well great thank you very
much yes we definitely very lucky to
have Tom today I'm sure we can learn a
lot from him so if you
free to ask any questions you might have
and then maybe errand and pass pass if
you want to start maybe by introducing
yourself hello everyone so I'm I'm part
I'm a third-year student at Cornell and
keys College in Cambridge and I'm also
the president of the are comedians which
is Cambridge University math Society
I'm largely interested in kilowatts and
genetical Computer Sciences okay great
thank you pass and Aaron what about you
hi I'm Aaron I'm a third year at st.
John's College in Oxford currently and
yeah as Sean said I'm currently running
Oxford's and abetted math Society the
invariants this year which is kind of
like the main like Society for
undergraduate math positions and yeah
I've interested in pure maths oh great
well I'm more interested in applied math
so feel free to ask questions about
anything really and yeah as I mentioned
I'm a 4cm a student I'm at Chabot
College and yes I should I just finished
my Oxford degree but yeah maybe if we
just keep up with kind of a very general
question maybe for parson Aaron if you
could just say take a minute to explain
why did you apply to Oxbridge in the
first place
so I applied I guess for the obvious
reason it's Oxbridge has a very good
reputation for mathematics I think as
for well wilds for in particular I think
there is mainly kind of cut feeling but
yeah the main reason I apply it is
because of like the very good reputation
for mathematics see yeah yeah they're
one of the they're two of the best
universities in the world for maths in
particular I would say that what helped
me choose between Oxford and Cambridge
was just the very different application
procedures and it's up to you which one
caters your interests more and that
should be the way to choose because one
of them has a subjective paper at the
after after you get your interviews
while the other one has an exam before
your interview so whichever method you
feel like you do Bastion is the one you
should go for
absolutely yeah I think for me that's
also why I talk to it just because the
admission test was a before the
interview and it was a it was better for
me in terms of timing but yeah I guess
it just really depends on you and what
you want to do was it the case for you
are into yeah I definitely liked the
idea of doing kind of mats and then kind
of having a bit of a safer feeling I
guess brought then like having to do
Stephanie levels at the same time I
thought that was kind of a very
stressful thing to think about for me so
yeah that's just how I felt
yeah okay great yeah we'll talk a bit
about the admission test in a bit more
detail in a few minutes but I just
wanted to kind of start off with a few
questions then we move on maybe more to
the application side and then we can we
can think about what it's like to
actually study at ostrich wants you
there
but then just to just start also tom
could you tell us a bit more details
about your website like what kind of
videos do you do what is kind of the
purpose behind you your videos
absolutely happy safe um so I think the
original idea was I wanted to create
math space online content and I wanted
to try and kind of have a bit more fun
with it than that I felt the current
material was so there was you know I
started this about three years ago there
were loads of brilliant resources
available online you know numberphile
being the prime example it's fantastic
you can learn so much it's talking to
world experts it's really such a
brilliant free resource but at the same
time it's all quite serious like you
have a bit of a laugh and a joke and you
kind of you know the passion of the
presenters I think comes across in those
videos which helps to generate that
extra like excitement and entertainment
but I kind of originally just wanted to
do something a little bit completely not
serious and completely sort of out there
and one of the things that happen as a
result of that was I ended up creating
the
persona as the naked mathematician which
is where I do do some lectures in my
underwear I did do one in Oxford
actually a couple of years ago it is
quite a detailing obviously the whole
point here is it's just to have a little
bit more fun with the subject because
when I was doing some research and I was
deciding to launch the website and the
YouTube channel and I was thinking what
can I do a bit differently so I went to
spoke to my target audience of people
who maybe don't like maths or don't
really engage with maths and one of the
things that came back to me which really
surprised me was that lots of people
outside of the subject see it is very
serious and to me which is possibly part
of my personality but to me that the
easiest way to make something not
serious was like well I'll just do it in
my pants so then how could anybody take
what I'm saying seriously
so like that to me was just a very easy
way just to create something a bit more
fun and a bit different with you know
with Matt and I'm still talking about
reasonably advanced maths topics but
just having a little bit more fun with
it so the main goal is just to try and
have a bit more fun I also do other
things where I go into more in-depth
topic so I've done a lot based on fluid
mechanics so my research is in fluid
mechanics so I do lots of videos based
on that just because I have access to
lots of experts in that area and you get
created and you also have lots of nice
experiments which great really good
visuals for videos but I think the
overall theme is just to kind of have a
bit of fun with the subject great thank
you and would you just have a quick
example of a recent video you did and
you think would be really cool to watch
yes well I could I could have promote to
here because I like both of them
so one of them is super relevant I
recently did a mock Oxford interview
with Steve Chow so Steve runs another
YouTube channel called black pen red pen
great channel just got really recommend
everyone should check it out and he's a
mathematician in America and we did this
online sort of Oxford mock interview so
I actually used the interview question I
asked two years ago so Steve didn't know
this but we did a proper interview that
I gave to my career
students now two years ago and we went
through that question so that one I
think is really relevant to this
discussion it also is quite fun and then
another one I did the week before that
was looking at fractals and I did an
in-depth sort of investigation into the
snowflake which is a particular
fractal it kind of looks like a
snowflake and actually went through the
calculation to show that the perimeter
is infinite but the area of the shape is
finite which is quite an interesting it
feels like it should be almost like
contradictory but it is sort of you know
once you go through the steps you see
why it works and how it works
there will be my two recommendations
right I totally knew that about
frightens of course but yeah great great
to hear thanks Tom
and maybe Aaron on part if you want to
talk a bit but this is your president of
like what kind of events
oh right thank you I'd loved him so the
Archimedes is the largest mass society
in Cambridge and there are three other
mass societies that are large that the
our comedians we typically have two
kinds of events we have academic tapas a
movie where we invite speakers from
around the world we are taking advantage
of the poet pandemic we're getting
speakers from America as well as from
the other universities but typically we
have speakers who are PhD students we
have speakers who are professors and not
me am also started boosting when there
are talks and the good thing is we have
started recording these talks so if
there is a link in the description for
the our comedians YouTube channel which
you can visit and watch all of our talks
on YouTube we also have an important
event every week so we have user and
board games available mathematicians we
have pop quizzes and overall the idea is
to bring mathematicians together to have
fun and discuss ideas ok great thanks
and what about URM is it kind of similar
oh yeah so broadly speaking I'd say
quite similar so the invariance is kind
of like a main social platform for
mathematicians in Oxford so we have
social events we also have many events
relation mathematics we have regular
speakers so last term I don't know if
you've heard of the YouTube channel
feebly warm brown but he spoke at the
invariants last and we also have things
like curve puzzle competitions and have
sponsored events where you kind of meet
with our sponsors and yeah we kept in
contact with them if like you want to
apply to these companies and stuff like
that well see
yeah okay great thank you so now I
wanted to take some time to talk a bit
more the actual application process
which is complicated I would say maybe
to some extent because you have
mitch test interview etc so I just
wanted to start with you know how would
you have any suggestions about how to
prepare for the admissions test which is
the step for Cambridge and the mass
admissions test for
I can see first step the future of
usually very few students get any help
from their school sports step and it is
intended to be designed you either you
can study for it on your own and so the
most people who are studying with me in
Cambridge and there are a lot of free
resources available so if you check the
university's staff website which should
be linked in the chat you can there's a
step support program which is the
university's official health program
first step which has questions as well
as explanations for how to solve them
and it's all available for free there's
also Stephens across this excellent book
which should also be available for free
if you just Google for okay great I
don't know if anyone else would like to
to kind of jump in on that as well and
especially maybe if you have any idea
specifically about what to do if your
school doesn't offer any help is there
other there any resources one could use
for this admission test and maybe
globally you know in order to write your
personal statements I don't know if you
have any idea for example regarding the
admissions test I second everything that
path said about the brilliant the
program for the staff at Cambridge I
actually used to work on that when I was
a PhD student doing the marking so so
students be able to submit their answers
and then as they recruited some of those
PhD students to their mark their work
and give them actual feedback as well as
you know obviously having access to the
mark scheme and then in terms of the
Oxford the the maps the arcs of
admissions tests so it's it's obviously
slightly different to step you'll you'll
notice this if you look at both exams
they have slightly different styles but
fundamentally they're testing the same
thing so whilst the main way to prepare
for one of no say you're going to
Cambridge and you have to do the step
the main way to prepare for the step is
to just do as many practice questions as
you possibly can
that is absolutely it's it's not very
original but that is the best way to
prepare for
that particular example and it's the
same for the Oxford Matt the m80 do as
many of them as you can and I know for
sure with the m80 the Matt you have
access to the last twenty years worth of
exams or however many years it's been
running for maybe it's like fourteen or
something plus the full solutions so not
only can you do the questions yourself
you can then check your answers which is
obviously very very helpful so you don't
need to rely on somebody at your school
for example to mark your work you can
actually have access to the mark schema
market yourself and you should do that
and try and be as I wouldn't say overly
harsh but you know don't if you do get
something wrong and you know you didn't
do it right then you'd obviously be true
to yourself cuz you're only tricking
yourself but whilst they are slightly
different in their style because they're
fundamentally testing the same thing you
can actually use the practice papers
from the other test that you're not
planning to do to supplement your
practice for the one you are trying to
do so whether you're doing the Matt or
the step I would recommend working your
way through all possible past exams for
both possible admissions tests because
again whilst they have very slightly
different styles and very slightly
different sort of syllabus or syllabi to
each of them they're still fundamentally
checking the same ability which is can
you take some of the basic maths you've
learnt at school and apply it in
unfamiliar contexts so that's really
what they're trying to test because
that's what you have to do at University
so because they're both testing the same
thing you can actually just go through
and do past exam questions from both of
them because I've definitely spoken to
students in the past who say 12 years
worth of m80 papers they've done that
within the first month of their revision
and then they have no other things they
can do so I think you know then going on
to do the step paper all the other way
around is a really really useful
resource and not many people actually
sort of take advantage of
absolutely I totally agree and I think
for example for me my school didn't
really offer any help because I just
want to French school they don't really
kind of send students to jobs fish to
study maths
but as Tom just mentioned there is so
much stuff online like as in all the
tests online and the solutions so I just
did all the tests twice I think and that
was already a really really good
starting point because at the end of the
day you know the admission test is such
an important part so I think and I think
another point that I wanted to mention
is that if you look at the actual
syllabus covered by the admissions test
it's not I think it's it's not that bad
in a way there's nothing exceptionally
difficult so I didn't really need that
much help from my school
it was mostly stuff I could figure out
on my own or just by reading stuff
online you know so I think the actual
content you can be tested on is as in
the actual knowledge it's not that bad
but you do really need to get that
practice in get used to the style of
questions and and and yeah I think
that's it really you should always be up
to date with what's going on on the
website because the faculty wants to
help you to get in and so we have
organised a lot of events in the past
which were in person so we will invite
students to come and try more interviews
trying more papers and you would mark
them and now that everything is online
you might be able to participate from
your home so it always would keep - keep
checking what's happening
yeah just urge to all say what Tom said
I I personally from my experience found
doing to step 1 papers to be extremely
useful preparation for the mohe so yeah
that's perhaps something to consider
when you're doing that exam ok great
thank you very much and then maybe if we
just do kind of a quick one in there why
did you apply
p'tee studied math and no upslide for
example at Oxford you can study maths
and computer scientists
so yeah I choose to do maths for various
reasons sooo an Oxford there are a
variety of join schools degrees you can
do you can do either just the the like
maths course or you can do maths and
stats maths and computer science maths
and philosophy and this one Sarah for
theater option to do maths and physics
you want to you but I chose to do maths
because basically that's where my
interests lie so I mean I I wasn't I
well I have one particularly interested
in doing philosophy or computer science
I also have done like a levels in
subjects relevant to that so I can
really apply to these subjects
it's also worth considering if you're
going to apply formats and stats I
believe if you start off on a maths
degree you can still - you can just
don't choose to switch to math since
that's if you want to just by taking
more statistics options so yeah you can
definitely do that and use in your
second year something worth keeping in
mind but again it's also worth knowing
that you don't have to study straight
math if you want to do something
slightly different there are other
options to consider - and then just I
wanted to move on maybe to if we think
about interview specifically I think Tom
it would be really really helpful to
have you perspective on this like what
would you want to see in students and
maybe what kind of questions do you ask
as in what do you really want to test in
an interview yeah I was waiting for this
or so okay what am I looking for in a
student first of all a complete love and
passion for the subject so you know it's
again possibly not very original but for
me as a tutor I want to be working with
somebody who is loves the subjects as
much as I do and get
as much enjoyment from the subject as I
do so we can sort of feed off each other
when we're in a tutorial sort of you
know put that back and forth so so real
real passion enjoyment of the subject
that's also really important because
when you go to university you can and I
was told this by my undergraduate
chooses in fact and I do like repeating
this you can think of it as doing a
full-time job so you'll be doing maths
for 35 to 40 hours a week and I'm sure
all of you as students will back me up
that it's at least 35 to 40 hours a week
I'm just doing maths so it is a
full-time job so you really do need to
enjoy your subject if you're going to be
doing it as though it was a full-time
job so that's also an important reason
why we do look for that passion and
enjoyment in the subject beyond that
also we tend to look for students that
will actually thrive in the in the
Oxford or the Cambridge system so so
with the personalized learning with the
tutorials where it's worn or
supervisions the call in Cambridge where
you have your one tutor say me and two
students so having that interaction
gives you very personalized learning and
that works for some people and doesn't
work for others so a lot of what the
interview is about is trying to judge
will this candidate actually sort of do
well and benefit from that particular
teaching environment or would they in
fact be better suited to a larger class
environment which you know wouldn't be
what you would get out to at all
Cambridge so it's also there's some
elements of that as well your your the
the interview is more to me as a tutor I
see it more as doing a practice tutorial
we're going to sit down we're going to
talk through some maths I'm going to
tell you something that I don't expect
you to know I'm going to teach you
something maybe for a few minutes tell
you something brand-new that I expect
you to have zero knowledge of and then I
want to see how do you then use that new
knowledge to answer a question to try
and solve a math problem because that's
exactly what a tutorial is in the
majority of cases you you in a tutorial
you've done your work beforehand and
bring it along to the to
toriel but if there's something that you
can't do one of those questions then I'm
going to explain how to do that in the
tutorial and then we're going to work
through the problem together to then get
the correct solution so an interview is
very much like a practice tutorial and
that's why we still use them to select
our candidates because the best way of
testing how you will do in the Oxbridge
environment is by doing the practice
tutorial and practicing how you're going
to be taught so their main two things I
think for me you're looking for that
passion and also you're looking for that
ability to actually learn new things
take things in quickly and then use them
in unfamiliar or new situations in sort
of the practice tutorial absolutely
Sanctum I think I totally agree from my
my experience I wouldn't say it was
necessarily about knowledge it's more
about giving about being given something
completely new that you've never seen
before and it's really important I think
two things number one you know sure that
you have ideas that you want to find the
answers that you want to try this even
if it doesn't work
if the tutor the person interviewing you
is giving you hints it's super helpful
to really listen take that in and show
that you can you know build on that
sense because at the end of the day they
want someone they can work with for the
next three or four years so yeah but
that being said you know there is some
kind of basic knowledge you need like
basic integrals things like that you
know because it would be a shame to you
know kind of fail an interview because
you forgot about that you know that
classic integral I don't know about pass
an errand if you have anything you want
to add about interviews I'd say like a
main bit of advice is just like be
yourself
yeah like doing try and like pretend to
be anything that you're not just like I
knew yeah I mean if you're just like do
your best and and that that's like
probably that that's the best strategy I
think
my advice would be to just learn how to
communicate Maps because you don't want
to be sitting there with the maps going
on in your head and the your interview
are not knowing what you're thinking
about and it's very important that you
learn to think out loud when you're
actually working through the problem so
that your interview at least knows that
yes you're thinking in the right
direction and you were just close to the
answer but what you get there again
that's just a follow-up from what pastor
said that's very true about why you can
think of the interview as a mock or
practice tutorial because again in a
tutorial the the whole teaching dynamic
is only going to work if you're able to
communicate to me or to your tutor what
it is that you're trying to do and what
your thinking is so again that's why we
sort of encourage this thinking out loud
in the interview one other thing I
forgot to mention which i think is
probably worth adding obviously talking
about interviews is a lot of the time as
well for us as tutors we will almost
purposefully try to find somewhere where
you will get stuck during that interview
because again perhaps up until this
point in your mathematical career you
have most likely never been properly
stuck on a question and so I can
guarantee no matter how fantastic you
are at high school once you come to
Oxford or Cambridge to study maths you
will get stuck like guaranteed and they
can see you all sort of nodding and
smiling and laughing because you know at
some point in your career so far as
students you have got stuck sometimes it
happens very early sometimes it happens
in third year or fourth year but you
will get stuck on something and not
really know how to like really really
stuck and again if we can capture that
in the interview we might want you as a
teacher I want to find the place where
this person gets stuck I don't really
care what it is or at which point that
is but it's then we I can then see how
you overcome that challenge and how you
overcome being stuck and that is just
incredibly valuable to us to see how you
cope with that situation knowing that it
will happen to everybody once you're
actually
the University studying for your degree
so in short don't worry if you get stuck
we're trying almost to make you get
stuck absolutely I guess done if you
think about it you want to see how a
student improves even if it's over 20
minutes I suppose yeah exactly so so we
want to get you stuck I can then teach
you something or week as the tutors can
then teach you something new and then
see how you process that new information
and use it you know based on what we've
told you because again your whole degree
is lectures give you information it goes
in you have to process that to then
answer the problem sheets so it's all
just kind of as much as we can in a 20
minute interview we're trying to
recreate the various things that we know
will happen to you during your degree in
Oxford or Cambridge so it's kind of like
a practice really it's almost like a
test or dummy run to see how you would
do in that situation okay great and yeah
maybe just to follow up on that question
we just got a live question again feel
free to ask questions on the YouTube
chat and we will try to cover them and
so the question is what kind of
preparation would you recommend for
interviews as opposed to the entrance
exams
yeah I can answer that so I think that
much helpful thing I did before my
interview was to just get a friend to
sit in front of me and I would explain
mathematical ideas and concepts to them
and this way I trained myself to think
out loud to every step of computation
they've happened to what I said
previously you need to be good at
thinking out loud in an interview
yeah I would really agree with what what
path said definitely even even your your
friends your even your parents you're
younger older siblings grandparents
anybody they don't need to know what you
are saying it doesn't matter if they
have no idea and think you're speaking
in a foreign language when you're
explaining your maths it's incredibly
good practice to explain your solution
to a problem out loud because that's
exactly what you're going to have to
doing the interview and you just you
just don't get that experience at all in
a school setting you've never done it
before so it you really do need to to
practice that like path has said
something else that I think is also very
useful I thought I had something oh yeah
something else is very useful is to look
up and sort of digest maths that's
outside of the school syllabus so this
doesn't need to be like getting out a
very heavy old dusty textbook this can
just be watching a video on YouTube of
an interesting piece of maths so let's
say a number file video or a three blue
one Brown video or whatever video you
want and just you know it's something
that you've never seen before you're
gonna watch that 10 20 minute video
digest that information and then maybe
go away and try and do a little bit of
research yourself or maybe try and find
some other similar areas and do a bit of
reading but that's again that's very
much what the interview is like you're
you're absorbing new information so
instead of doing it from the interview
you're doing it from a video but then
you're going away and trying to do
something with that yourself so watching
a video and then trying to play around
with that new knowledge is pretty much
what we're going to be doing in an
interview when I explain to you this new
concept and then ask you to answer a
question based on it
absolutely I think if you watch some
videos it helps you know you can see how
he communicates mass in an enthusiastic
way I think it's quite quite helpful to
see really because it might be a bit
hard to to visualize sometimes but yeah
I totally agree with everything that you
know that
you--you'll said I think another way to
think about it is imagine you have a
really complicated problem if you have
if you only have the answer
it's it might be a bit worse this we
really want to see how did you get there
actually it's way more important so when
you practice on your own don't just give
the answer make sure you say you know
exaggerate it say this is my step one I
did this maybe it doesn't work okay
let's do something else then step two
and yeah just make sure it's crystal
clear I would say and then maybe just
conscious of time if we spend a bit of
time thinking about what is it actually
like to study at Oxbridge wants you
there like what do you do etc so I think
something quite important to think about
is what is the main difference between
maths at school versus NASA Uni does it
take a different style of studying for
example so I don't would any of you like
to to talk about this yeah I think
really the main difference between
massive school and that's at university
is master school especially at a level I
think has a very heavy focus on
computation where as a university you're
frequently doing things that you haven't
seen before
basically where where you are trying to
solve some problem or exercise you've
been said that you kind of haven't like
seen a metaphor or they're looking for
deduction brought from okay computing
something so that's definitely something
you have to get used to and when you can
when you get a university I think
yeah I like that too that saying that in
school you typically would not find
yourself stuff because the questions are
designed in a way that you learn a
concept and you immediately apply it in
with a small need but but here you are
you're truly topics that you're expected
to discover new maps on your own and
results would not be spoon-fed so you
have to think about it for three days
before you've discovered a new method to
solve a question and quite often you end
up discovering something poking you and
one way I like to sort of think about
this is it's the kind of mass that we do
is is very similar to the kind of
questions you'll see on the on the
entrance exams in fact in the sense that
when at school let's say we were doing a
question that involved differentiation
then you would be given a set of
functions and the question would say
differentiate these functions or
calculate the derivative of these
functions and you go through and you
calculate the derivative the kind of
question and the kind of way you would
do a problem like that at Oxford or
Cambridge would be you would it would
sort of be given in a different setting
it might you know you might have a
function and then it's a question might
ask you know how could we optimize this
function for example
so really it's saying can you
differentiate it set the derivative to
zero find the maximum or the minimum etc
but it's not saying that out loud it's
presented in a different context where
there's that gap on purpose there's the
here's the situation
then if you're at school you then get
this middle bit and then you do the
answer whereas now it's like here's
roughly what we're talking about so you
might hit see the word option I you know
optimization or you might see some
mention of extreme points something
that's hinting maybe you want to do a
derivative but it will not explicitly
say do a derivative and it's just kind
of filling in those gaps is one way that
I would sort of think about the
different way that we do maths obviously
we also learned completely new topics
you've never done before as well that
goes without saying
but just in terms of the way that we do
the maths I think you're just not given
as anywhere near as much guidance and
told exactly what you're meant to do you
have to make those sort of they're
filling those gaps yourself in your head
absolutely and just I just wanted to add
quickly to add quickly
like for me I thought this one applied
math and that's something I didn't do at
school really and it's really cool like
I do kind of math biology stuff modeling
of tumor growth for example and I you
know I didn't even know you could do
this using math and I think that's what
I really like about uni and then if we
move on maybe Aaron could you talk to
could you tell us a bit more about what
a typical day at Oxford is like for you
yeah sure so a kind of typical weekday
for me would be in the morning I get up
and go to the maths Institute which is
the kind of Matt's building where all
the likes to house and then I would go
there maybe do some work and go to my
lectures which are usually in the
morning then maybe after that I go and
have lunch after lunch and my gear to do
kind of in college library or one of the
university libraries that use of my like
usual sheets or stuff like that and then
I might also have some tutorials in the
afternoon which are kind of like where
you go through a problem sheet that
you've been set with like one other one
or two other people and one of your
tutors and then after that maybe guess
who I knew like five or six o'clock and
I probably stopped by for the day go and
have dinner and then go to like some
kind of society or social event in the
evening you see yeah okay great
thank you very much and just following
up on that maybe path could you tell us
a bit more about what tutorials or
supervisions are and what exactly what
happens really during a tutorial or
supervision so what typically happens is
in of course if you're doing the lecture
course then the course is split in two
that's a four-four lecture sections and
for every section there is an example XI
so for lectures approximately would
correspond to one example XI and then we
have to spend around three to four days
working through that sheet trying to
solve the questions and you hand your
supervision so you have your example
sheet into a designated supervisor who
isn't usually an expert in the subject
who works in your college so tom is one
and then the supervisor overnight
corrects your work and you have a
meeting with the supervisor which is
called a supervision in Cambridge and
it's called a tutorial in Oxford well I
think the idea is the same in that the
supervisor would then look at your work
and comment on it try to discuss your
solutions and the right way to do the
solutions if there isn't it's more of a
discussion session with an expert in the
subject and one of your friends okay
great some do you agree with that is
that what your tutorials look like yeah
yeah I almost I mean I'm sure Aaron path
of obviously experiencing them at the
moment as I am so so you know they know
how they work the only other thing I
might add is is something that path was
hinting at I wouldn't say there's
necessarily a right way to to answer a
question but something that I try to do
in my tutorials and I'm sure lots of
other supervisors and tutors do is we
you know if you have managed to get the
majority of the work correct then
there's not really you know if okay let
me start again
if there are questions you can't do then
we're going to focus on those questions
during that one hour of discussion
because the idea is you know I want to
teach you and help you to be able to
answer those questions yourself next
time you see something similar so so I
definitely start by covering things that
perhaps you didn't get completely
correct but then if you've managed to
get lots of things correct then I sort
of
slightly changed the style and instead
would look at alternative ways of
solving those problems so again you know
whilst there's only one correct answer
in in a maths problem there are several
different ways of getting to that answer
so it might be the case that the errand
has done it one way may be parted it a
different way and then I did it a third
completely different way so in that
situation we would all share our
solutions so you know I might ask Aaron
to explain to myself and path how did
you do it ask pass to do the same and
then finally maybe show both Aaron and
path the way I did it just so that we
can all see different viewpoints so the
next time we we come across a similar
problem you have several routes that you
can go down because it might be the case
that one of those methods is more suited
to the new problem that you're trying to
tackle absolutely yeah I would
definitely say that was my experience
too so just what happens once you get
into Oxford and Cambridge what is your
first tier like but what what kind of
courses do you study for example
sooo in Oxford all of the first years
study the same set of courses so the
first year is called prelims and that's
just the name for that like set of
courses and I think the first time at
least was probably the one way I spent
the most time adjusting but I say I kind
of everyone kind of becomes like quite a
place niche I'd say because you spend a
lot of time forever learning stuff
together and in that first year really I
mean you get into the first year and
think well I learned like really a lot
this year it's like I knew - I kind of
remember getting to the end of the third
I mean first in first year and really
thinking like yeah this is so much
different sure what I knew last year so
yeah you'll really learn a lot in the
first time it's like pretty cool
experience okay great what about you
pass I think there is a freshness guide
that is quite helpful right it's almost
similar for us in that for first years
to the same subjects and it's a good mix
between you are applied and logic
concept hearing stuff so the package
perhaps for the math department and the
our comedians have put together a
pressures guide which has most of the
details relevant to first year's and
Cambridge including informal
descriptions of the course and also some
fun stuff related in the course you
could be so the link should be in the
chat and you should definitely check out
the document
I will say maybe add if you're
interested in seeing what like the core
says she look like all of the opposite
courses for first-year are actually
available online
I think it's like courses taught math
stocks taught a co uk you can kind of
give that and I could be through sounds
like the have first time if I see a
problem sheets if you want a little bit
of taster
see yeah absolutely I think something
worth mentioning is there is a good
mixture of pure math and applied math in
in first year and then at least in
Oxford you can start specializing a bit
more you can start this process in your
second year and then in your third and
fourth year you entirely choose your
options so you can choose from really
write wide range of at least 20 probably
more options which is which is really
really cool I think I don't if anyone
wants to try something else
Pass is it is it similar in Cambridge
it's in fact very similar than that in
the first year you want to just get a
feel of what different flavors of maths
our second year goes on a bit deeper
there's not a lot of choice but you can
still choose between broadly leaning
towards pure maths or applied maths but
careers when you can truly specialize
there are 30 to 40 courses that you can
choose from and so you can entirely
specialize in say I want to specialize
an analysis in the next year and theme
goes out on the fourth year so in the
third and fourth year you will be doing
the kind of matter in terms like
interests you and you have to spend the
first two years trying to find out what
that is
great thank you very much for your
answers and we get in quite quite close
to the end but I just wanted to talk
about something slightly different which
is what do students do after a math
degree I term would you like to talk
about that maybe
if i unmuted myself got carried away I
can certainly tell you what I did so I
finished my PhD in 2016 and then spent a
year working for the BBC as a science
journalist so completely
I wouldn't say entirely unrelated to to
my maths degree of my maths thesis but
the I was quite fortunate in that they
were looking to expand their journalist
pool and wanted to focus more on maths
in general in their news coverage and so
they were looking specifically for
somebody with a mass qualification to
come in and help them you know find the
interesting math stories that were
happening around the world so I was very
fortunate that sort of was I didn't know
necessarily that I wanted to go into
journalism and media it just seemed like
a very fun job so I ended up applying
for it and then and then getting it
fortunately so I did that for a year and
then that was how I developed my skills
I guess in in communication of media and
I decided I wanted to keep doing this
but wanted to do it for myself rather
than for for an organization so you know
it's great as the BBC are it still
didn't feel quite like I owned it as
much as doing it for myself so that was
one of the reasons why I then decided to
go down the route of doing my own thing
with Tom rocks maths and then it just so
happened that I figured if I was going
to be believable as a mathematician
online then I should still be practicing
maths myself and so I then thought well
what's the best way to practice
something is to teach it you know you
don't classic say you don't understand
something so you can teach it to others
and so then I started to look for
teaching positions at universities and
then got sort of my job in back in
Oxford so I now do the sort of half of
my time is teaching I no longer do
research
I'm just purely focusing on the teaching
and then the time that I guess a normal
mathematician would spend on research I
spend doing sort of online videos and
resources in that way but I did do lots
of different internships as a student
just to show the the provide variety I
did I did do some teaching
so I went to China first summer to do
some teaching I also worked for
insurance company as an actuary which is
a sort of classic thing for a
mathematician to do very well paid but I
personally didn't found it quite boring
but that's just me lots of people enjoy
it and I also did a research project as
well one of the summers which would have
gave me a taste and convinced me that I
wanted to do the PhD and do more
research so lots of different things you
can do okay great thanks - yeah I think
teaching and research is definitely kind
of a big area for me I'm going to I'm
going into finance which is also a
classic application of math into a kind
of maybe slightly kind of mathematical
modeling role but this is just you know
kind of one of the options I don't know
about you pass an errand if you've
thought about it
there's a lot of rollin there's a lot a
lot of love mathematics and computer
science and I feel like machine learning
and stuff like automated theorem proving
there are these high tech companies that
want one Hardison's to work for them so
it's a very with a math degree what you
get is an ability to understand things
better and I think that's the most
important thing you take away from your
degree that you can apply to any other
absolutely I definitely agree great
thank you very much for you answers I
just wanted to finish with if we can
take a you know do a last round of you
know piece of advice you would have for
prospective students maybe if you can
mention a website you use the book you
read something like that that you would
definitely recommend to someone watching
us now
so I have 2 book recommendations
atmosphere which can can help bridge the
gap between school and undergraduate
lymphatics so one of them is called
towards higher mathematics by Richard
all restores I Feud like the director of
undergraduate studies in Oxford and that
is a really helpful book and the other
one is called a concise introduction to
pure mathematics by Martin be back and
that's specific particularly useful
thing for UK students because there's
not that most pure mathematics that
appears in a level maths Syria there is
a two very useful books in my opinion
oh I'd like to recommend the steep I'd
like to recommend a book by Stephen take
loss which is and ones problems in
mathematics and this is also recommended
by the University of Cambridge for
preparation for steps so it's an
excellent resource with really
interesting and fun problems which you
can think about the other nice thing
available for free on the internet I
would say is even chance PDF called the
infinitely large napkin and it's a
really good introduction to university
maths that breaks it down to layman
terms so you will still be learning what
you'll be doing in university you know
to a fairly high level of depth and it
will be simple enough so that book you
can keep meeting until exactly
the main thing for me I think would be
to really cultivate your your passion
and enjoyment of the subject by for
example reading not textbooks but also
popular maths books so I know when I was
applying I read a book called the
Millennium problems by Keith Devlin
which gives you an introduction to the
the 7 million dollar millennium prize
problems which is very exciting for me
as a teenager to think I could earn a
million dollars doing maths of course
it's not quite as easy as that but I
found that to be a really just a good
way of generating it sort of even more
passion for my subject also recently
seventeen equations that change the
world by Ian Stewart he's a
mathematician in Warwick so that's also
an excellent book again it's sort of
more popular maths rather than a
textbook so it just makes it much more
enjoyable read I think but also just
still cover some very fundamental you
know ideas and concepts and I think in
general just watching YouTube videos I'm
bound to say this I think someone who
produces YouTube videos but there's so
much great maths content available and I
think you don't need to try and follow
everything you don't need to try and
understand everything just just sort of
opening yourself up to to exploring
different areas of maths that you
literally have no idea existed until you
watch this particular video or look at
this particular resource so we're not at
all expecting anybody to understand
these things but it's just really to me
it's a really nice demonstration that
you enjoy the subject and you have that
passion and that drive that you're going
to need to succeed Oxford and Cambridge
just because you know you enjoy watching
interesting maths videos unfortunately
most of the the good maths YouTube
channels do make it very enjoyable and
entertaining as well as including the
content so hopefully it isn't too
painful and doesn't feel like work
absolutely yes thanks everyone for
sharing for me I would just say again do
take a look at Toms videos tomorrow
smart I think that's a you know really
useful just to see if you you know do
you actually enjoy the applications of
math what do you want to talk about in
your personal statement or just things
like that it might give you a few ideas
and and also I would say you might want
to take a look at the Oxford mathematics
YouTube channel you know they do quite a
few useful useful videos on there too so
yeah but I think that's it from us today
but thank you everyone for for tuning in
we will be posting useful links and
resources in the description so make
sure to have a look we'll also be doing
more Q&A in the next few weeks so do
take a look and we've done quite a few
already as well you can follow us on
social media we will just post it into
our website again which is inside uni
make sure to follow Tom rocks mass take
a look at the social media from Oxford
and Cambridge Mass societies - and and
yeah thank you for joining thank you to
Aaron parson term for you know for being
on this on this school today it's been
great to have you and have a nice day
bye
you